rest/README.md, before:

# Scafoldr REST API

REST API backend for the Scafoldr application, providing secure communication with the Scafoldr database and handling user authentication, project management, and code generation workflows.

## Architecture

The REST API is built using **Spring Boot 3.5.6** with **Java 21** and follows a layered architecture with clear separation between domain and application layers:

### Domain Layer (Generic Components)

The domain layer provides generic, reusable components that form the foundation for all entities:

- **[`DomainModel`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/DomainModel.java)** - Abstract base entity with common fields (ID, serialization)
- **[`DomainController`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/controller/DomainController.java)** - Generic REST controller providing CRUD operations for any domain entity
- **[`DomainService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/DomainService.java)** - Generic service layer with common business logic (validation, transactions)
- **[`DomainDTO`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/dto/DomainDTO.java)** - Marker interface for data transfer objects
- **[`BaseRepository`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/repository/BaseRepository.java)** - Generic JPA repository interface extending Spring Data JPA

### Domain Layer (Entity-Specific Components)

Components that extend the generic domain abstractions to provide CRUD operations for specific entities:

- **Entity Services** - Services extending [`DomainService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/DomainService.java) ([`UserService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/UserService.java))
- **Entity Controllers** - Controllers extending [`DomainController`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/controller/DomainController.java) for specific entities
- **Entity Repositories** - Repositories extending [`BaseRepository`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/repository/BaseRepository.java) ([`UserRepository`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/repository/UserRepository.java))
- **Entity Models** - JPA entities extending [`DomainModel`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/DomainModel.java) ([`User`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/User.java), [`Project`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/Project.java))
- **Entity DTOs** - Request/response objects implementing [`DomainDTO`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/dto/DomainDTO.java)

### Application Layer (Business Logic Components)

Components that implement application-specific business logic without extending domain abstractions:

- **Business Services** - Services with complex business logic ([`AuthService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/AuthService.java), [`EmailService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/EmailService.java))
- **Application Controllers** - Controllers with custom endpoints ([`AuthController`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/controller/AuthController.java))
- **Utility Components** - JWT handling, security configuration, exception handlers

### Architecture Benefits

- **Code Reusability** - Generic CRUD operations reduce boilerplate
- **Consistency** - Standardized patterns across all entities
- **Maintainability** - Changes to common functionality affect all entities
- **Type Safety** - Generic types ensure compile-time validation
- **Extensibility** - Easy to add new entities by extending domain components

### Key Features

- **JWT Authentication** - Secure token-based authentication
- **Email Verification** - User registration with email verification codes
- **Project Management** - Multi-user project collaboration
- **Database Migrations** - Liquibase for schema versioning
- **Security** - Spring Security with rate limiting and validation

### Database

- **PostgreSQL** - Primary database
- **Liquibase** - Database migration management

## Database Migrations

This module uses **Liquibase 4.25.1** for database schema management and migrations.

### Migration Structure

Migrations are organized in [`src/main/resources/db/changelog/`](src/main/resources/db/changelog/):

```
db/changelog/
├── db.changelog-master.yaml    # Master changelog file
├── 001-create-tables.yaml      # Initial tables (users, verification_codes)
└── 002-create-project-table.yaml # Project and user_project tables
```

The master changelog ([`db.changelog-master.yaml`](src/main/resources/db/changelog/db.changelog-master.yaml)) includes all migration files in order.

### Adding New Migrations

1. **Create a new changelog file** with sequential numbering:
   ```bash
   touch src/main/resources/db/changelog/003-your-migration-name.yaml
   ```

2. **Add the migration content** following Liquibase YAML format:
   ```yaml
   databaseChangeLog:
     - changeSet:
         id: unique-id-timestamp
         author: your-name
         changes:
           - createTable:
               tableName: your_table
               columns:
                 - column:
                     name: id
                     type: BIGINT
                     autoIncrement: true
                     constraints:
                       primaryKey: true
   ```

3. **Include in master changelog** by adding to [`db.changelog-master.yaml`](src/main/resources/db/changelog/db.changelog-master.yaml):
   ```yaml
   databaseChangeLog:
     - include:
         file: db/changelog/003-your-migration-name.yaml
   ```

### Migration Execution

Migrations run automatically on application startup when [`spring.liquibase.enabled=true`](src/main/resources/application.properties:16) is set.

## Useful Commands

### Local Development

**Run the application:**
```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

**Generate migration from model changes:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:diff
```

**Apply pending migrations:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:update
```

**Rollback last migration:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:rollback -Dliquibase.rollbackCount=1
```

**View migration status:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:status
```

**Validate migrations:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:validate
```

### Docker Environment

When running with Docker, execute commands inside the container:

**Access the container:**
```bash
docker exec -it scafoldr-rest-1 bash
```

**Run Liquibase commands in container:**
```bash
# Generate diff migration
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:diff

# Apply migrations
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:update

# Check status
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:status

# Rollback
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:rollback -Dliquibase.rollbackCount=1
```

**Direct database access in Docker:**
```bash
# Connect to PostgreSQL
docker exec -it postgres psql -U postgres -d scafoldr

# View migration history
docker exec -it postgres psql -U postgres -d scafoldr -c "SELECT * FROM databasechangelog ORDER BY dateexecuted DESC LIMIT 10;"
```

### Configuration

**Environment Variables:**
- `POSTGRES_HOST` - Database host
- `POSTGRES_PORT` - Database port (default: 5432)
- `POSTGRES_DB` - Database name
- `POSTGRES_USER` - Database username
- `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` - Database password
- `JWT_SECRET` - JWT signing secret
- `EMAIL_SENDER_USERNAME` - SMTP username
- `EMAIL_SENDER_PASSWORD` - SMTP password

**Liquibase Configuration:**
Copy [`liquibase.properties.example`](src/main/resources/liquibase.properties.example) to `liquibase.properties` and update with your database credentials for local development.

### Build and Test

**Build the application:**
```bash
./mvnw clean package
```

**Run tests:**
```bash
./mvnw test
```

**Build Docker image:**
```bash
docker build -t rest .

Commit message:

Configure liquibase environment from pom.xml to avoid using .example file

rest/README.md, after:

# Scafoldr REST API

REST API backend for the Scafoldr application, providing secure communication with the Scafoldr database and handling user authentication, project management, and code generation workflows.

## Architecture

The REST API is built using **Spring Boot 3.5.6** with **Java 21** and follows a layered architecture with clear separation between domain and application layers:

### Domain Layer (Generic Components)

The domain layer provides generic, reusable components that form the foundation for all entities:

- **[`DomainModel`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/DomainModel.java)** - Abstract base entity with common fields (ID, serialization)
- **[`DomainController`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/controller/DomainController.java)** - Generic REST controller providing CRUD operations for any domain entity
- **[`DomainService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/DomainService.java)** - Generic service layer with common business logic (validation, transactions)
- **[`DomainDTO`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/dto/DomainDTO.java)** - Marker interface for data transfer objects
- **[`BaseRepository`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/repository/BaseRepository.java)** - Generic JPA repository interface extending Spring Data JPA

### Domain Layer (Entity-Specific Components)

Components that extend the generic domain abstractions to provide CRUD operations for specific entities:

- **Entity Services** - Services extending [`DomainService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/DomainService.java) ([`UserService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/UserService.java))
- **Entity Controllers** - Controllers extending [`DomainController`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/controller/DomainController.java) for specific entities
- **Entity Repositories** - Repositories extending [`BaseRepository`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/repository/BaseRepository.java) ([`UserRepository`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/repository/UserRepository.java))
- **Entity Models** - JPA entities extending [`DomainModel`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/DomainModel.java) ([`User`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/User.java), [`Project`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/model/Project.java))
- **Entity DTOs** - Request/response objects implementing [`DomainDTO`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/dto/DomainDTO.java)

### Application Layer (Business Logic Components)

Components that implement application-specific business logic without extending domain abstractions:

- **Business Services** - Services with complex business logic ([`AuthService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/AuthService.java), [`EmailService`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/service/EmailService.java))
- **Application Controllers** - Controllers with custom endpoints ([`AuthController`](src/main/java/com/scafoldr/controller/AuthController.java))
- **Utility Components** - JWT handling, security configuration, exception handlers

### Architecture Benefits

- **Code Reusability** - Generic CRUD operations reduce boilerplate
- **Consistency** - Standardized patterns across all entities
- **Maintainability** - Changes to common functionality affect all entities
- **Type Safety** - Generic types ensure compile-time validation
- **Extensibility** - Easy to add new entities by extending domain components

### Key Features

- **JWT Authentication** - Secure token-based authentication
- **Email Verification** - User registration with email verification codes
- **Project Management** - Multi-user project collaboration
- **Database Migrations** - Liquibase for schema versioning
- **Security** - Spring Security with rate limiting and validation

### Database

- **PostgreSQL** - Primary database
- **Liquibase** - Database migration management

## Database Migrations

This module uses **Liquibase 4.25.1** for database schema management and migrations.

### Migration Structure

Migrations are organized in [`src/main/resources/db/changelog/`](src/main/resources/db/changelog/):

```
db/changelog/
├── db.changelog-master.yaml    # Master changelog file
├── 001-create-tables.yaml      # Initial tables (users, verification_codes)
└── 002-create-project-table.yaml # Project and user_project tables
```

The master changelog ([`db.changelog-master.yaml`](src/main/resources/db/changelog/db.changelog-master.yaml)) includes all migration files in order.

### Adding New Migrations

1. **Create a new changelog file** with sequential numbering:
   ```bash
   touch src/main/resources/db/changelog/003-your-migration-name.yaml
   ```

2. **Add the migration content** following Liquibase YAML format:
   ```yaml
   databaseChangeLog:
     - changeSet:
         id: unique-id-timestamp
         author: your-name
         changes:
           - createTable:
               tableName: your_table
               columns:
                 - column:
                     name: id
                     type: BIGINT
                     autoIncrement: true
                     constraints:
                       primaryKey: true
   ```

3. **Include in master changelog** by adding to [`db.changelog-master.yaml`](src/main/resources/db/changelog/db.changelog-master.yaml):
   ```yaml
   databaseChangeLog:
     - include:
         file: db/changelog/003-your-migration-name.yaml
   ```

### Migration Execution

Migrations run automatically on application startup when [`spring.liquibase.enabled=true`](src/main/resources/application.properties:16) is set.

### Sync Existing Database with Migrations

For users who have existing tables in the database before migrations were implemented, you need to mark the first migration as already executed to avoid conflicts:

**Mark first migration as executed (for existing databases):**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:changelogSync
```

**In Docker environment:**
```bash
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:changelogSync
```

This command tells Liquibase that all changesets in the changelog have already been applied to the database, preventing it from trying to recreate existing tables.

## Useful Commands

### Local Development

**Run the application:**
```bash
./mvnw spring-boot:run
```

**Generate migration from model changes:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:diff
```

**Apply pending migrations:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:update
```

**Rollback last migration:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:rollback -Dliquibase.rollbackCount=1
```

**View migration status:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:status
```

**Validate migrations:**
```bash
./mvnw liquibase:validate
```

### Docker Environment

When running with Docker, execute commands inside the container:

**Access the container:**
```bash
docker exec -it scafoldr-rest-1 bash
```

**Run Liquibase commands in container:**
```bash
# Generate diff migration
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:diff

# Apply migrations
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:update

# Check status
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:status

# Rollback
docker exec -it rest mvn liquibase:rollback -Dliquibase.rollbackCount=1
```

**Direct database access in Docker:**
```bash
# Connect to PostgreSQL
docker exec -it postgres psql -U postgres -d scafoldr

# View migration history
docker exec -it postgres psql -U postgres -d scafoldr -c "SELECT * FROM databasechangelog ORDER BY dateexecuted DESC LIMIT 10;"
```

### Configuration

**Environment Variables:**
- `POSTGRES_HOST` - Database host
- `POSTGRES_PORT` - Database port (default: 5432)
- `POSTGRES_DB` - Database name
- `POSTGRES_USER` - Database username
- `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` - Database password
- `JWT_SECRET` - JWT signing secret
- `EMAIL_SENDER_USERNAME` - SMTP username
- `EMAIL_SENDER_PASSWORD` - SMTP password

### Build and Test

**Build the application:**
```bash
./mvnw clean package
```

**Run tests:**
```bash
./mvnw test
```

**Build Docker image:**
```bash
docker build -t rest .
